---
title: About this material
---

This material is aimed at people who have already interacted with a computer
using a programming language, but want to adopt best practices that make their
code more robust, more maintainable, and easier to understand. It can also be
used to facilitate the onboarding of new people in your lab or your project.
In particular, this material was designed for learners who do not have a
background in programming and computer science; more specifically still, this
content is mostly used with biologists, but there should be something in here
for most people wanting to adopt better practices towards scientific
computing.

Scientific computing is very diverse, ranging from a few-step analysis of
small data sets to simulations running for weeks on supercomputers. We focus
on the most common situations that every scientist encounters at some stage of
a research project: data analyses performed on a standard desktop computer.
The general ideas and principles that we expose carry over to other situations
as well, but the concrete tools and methods may not be suitable for tasks
requiring special hardware such as GPUs or supercomputers, or for projects
requiring a significant software development effort. In brief, this material
will help you write code for projects that have modest computational
requirements, while also introducting concepts that will become useful if you
ever need to scale up your activities.

We use the [*Julia*][jl] programming language; but you don't need to know
anything about the language to start going through this material. In fact, we
will not even cover how to install it for the first few modules. You will see
that good practices for scientific computing have very little to do with tools
and technical details; instead, they rely on thinking about programming in a
slightly different way. You will be able to apply these principles to any
language you prefer to use, even though we still think *Julia* is absolutely
fantastic.

[jl]: http://julialang.org/

This material can be given in a workshop format, ideally over two or three
days, covering several sections and one or two advanced examples. Please
contact [Timothée Poisot](mailto:timothee.poisot@umontreal.ca) for more
information. It is part of the suggested reading for classes BIO3033, BIO6033,
and BIO6032 at Université de Montréal, in order to catch up on programming
concepts used during these classes.

